# Ship-Detection-on-Remote-Sensing-Synthetic-Aperture-Radar-Data

In recent years, ship detection with deep learning techniques has increasingly concerned the research community, due to the variety and high value of the applications it supports. Such applications are the monitoring of exclusive economic zones, fisheries control, border surveillance, dark vessel detection, ship rescue, etc.
The main way to obtain the geographical position and information concerning a maritime vessel is the AIS automatic identification system. The above system consists of a network of receivers located on coastal points which can receive real-time information about each ship (identity, cargo, location, destination, etc.) Nevertheless, this system has significant disadvantages that arise from a set of inherent properties.
An AIS receiver can receive information from transmitters of passing ships at distances up to 100 nautical miles, with the most common range of ~0-60 nautical miles. This range may cover the majority of costal navigation routes, but in cases of ocean navigation the above distances are not sufficient. In addition, the operation of the transmitter of the AIS system of each ship is left entirely to the choice of the respective crew. Finally, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) obliges merchant ships with a capacity of more than 300 tons to integrate this system. Thus, ships of smaller tonnage that are not required to have the above receivers may not be located.
The synthetic aperture radar is an advanced microwave sensor capable of obtaining high-resolution images regardless of weather conditions. Because SAR imaging can cover large areas and can be taken at any time of the day, it is an ideal tool for creating image-based ship detection applications.
The present diploma thesis focuses on the investigation of methods for the effective detection of ships in synthetic aperture radar satellite imagery utilizing deep learning techniques. These methods uses the Faster-RCNN and YOLOv5 network architectures to create three different detectors. More specifically, the first two models created are based on the Faster-RCNN network architecture and utilize a set of normal and rotated bounding boxes for the detection process. The one-stage detection network is based on the architecture of the YOLOv5 model and uses regular bounding boxes to delimit the estimated targets.
The produced models are trained and evaluated on the HRSID dataset. The greatest accuracy is found in models that use regular bounding boxes to derive estimates. While, the model with rotated bounding boxes, shows the largest localization errors and is characterized by an increased number of false negative detections.
